# hardware_security
This course focuses on practical learning of computer hardware security using a hands-on approach. Students will perform a set of well-designed experiments on a custom-designed hardware platform, called HaHa, to understand innards of a computer system and ethically “hack” into it at different levels. They will examine it to understand security vulnerabilities, mount attacks, and implement various countermeasures to protect against specific attacks on hardware. The attacks the course covers are diverse in nature spanning various hardware components and life-cycle stages – they include reverse-engineering, counterfeiting/cloning, side-channel, fault-injection, and physical tampering (e.g., hardware Trojan, mod-chip) attacks.

The custom-designed hardware platform is called Hardware Hacking board (HaHa). It is an experimental development board for teaching and learning on diverse aspects of hardware security. The board currently has the capacity to support over a dozen experiments (provided below) that recreate different types of hardware security fundamentals, attacks, and countermeasures used in their defense for learning all major aspects of hardware security. Some versions of the HaHa board can be fabricated using the design files publicly available through this website (as well as the Hands-on Hardware Security Book website) or can be acquired from third-party vendors.

The HaHa board and 19 experiments (including Experiment 0) designed to run on it have been developed by Prof. Swarup Bhunia with help of his students and collaborators, at the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department of University of Florida, where the Hands-on Hardware Security course is being offered each fall for past five years.

The experiments can be run on the HaHa board by connecting it to a computer and without need of any additional benchtop electrical measurement unit. Hence, this course is suitable for online learning since it does not require access to a physical lab. Note that few experiments, however, (e.g., Experiment 9) require access to a USB Oscilloscope, such as Analog Discovery 2. Instructors are welcome to choose any subset of these experiments into their offered course depending on course duration and other factors.

- extensions were made to both experiment 2 and 4